# Disaster-management-idea
My idea of this project is to use Artificial neural networks for predicting earthquakes.
Earthquakes are generally the result of propagating seismic waves underneath the surface  of the earth.  The  vertical  motion  of  the  surface  waves  are recorded  by  the  seismometers  installed  in  different geographical  positions to  measure the  earthquake across the globe.
Earthquake  patterns have  been  classified with  respect to identified  features  using  ANN  based  networks.  Both supervised  and  unsupervised  techniques  are  utilized  for prediction  purpose.  Dangerous  earthquakes  can  be identified by developing a reliable activation or threshold function  in  the  network.  For  example  earthquakes  with larger magnitude and less  depth can  be most  dangerous. However,  the  earthquakes  with  larger  magnitude  and larger  depth  are  often  less  dangerous.  Although,  such earthquakes  may  cause  inner  energy  release  patterns  or may affect other layers but their affect is not spontaneous. Earthquakes with smaller magnitude and small depth may be sensitive if they prolong over a certain period of time 
Artificial  Intelligence  based  techniques are widely used for earthquake time series prediction. As the prediction failure problem resulting from the changes in  lithosphere  is  non-linear  in  nature,    the  results  of traditional approaches of probability estimation should be enhanced  by  using  the particle  swarm  optimization  and genetic algorithms based approaches. PSO, GA and ANN are capable to find actual fault intensity in any particular region. They  are also  used to estimate  the possibility  of potential  damage  likely  to  be  caused  by  a  certain earthquake. For  complex nature  of earthquake structures, prediction  of this  natural disaster  is not  a simple  job. A formal  and  conventional  regional  earthquake  prediction approach  may  not  work  for  predicting  the  future earthquakes. In view of this difficulty, a dynamic and self adaptive  strategy  is  required  which  should  have  the features  of adjusting  itself  with the  changes  in structure and  size  of  regional  faults.  For  this  purpose,  self organization  maps  have  proved  very  successful  as  they contain  the  capability  of  self  adaptation  and  learning quality.  This  work  is  an  attempt  to  cover  different strategies  related  to  AI  for  earthquake  prediction  and crosscheck their reliability. Although these strategies have been  designed  and  tested  for  regional  earthquakes,  yet their  results   need  to be  evaluated on  the data  obtained from  other  regions  so  that  the  standardized  and  fully reliable  mechanisms  for  prediction  this  frequently-occurring natural calamity can be developed. 

